---
title: 'PREreview'
date: 2024-11-08
authors: ['admin']
layout: post
categories: ['Software']
tags: ['Software']
links:
- icon: twitter
  icon_pack: fab
  name: Follow
  url: https://twitter.com/@Neurosarda
---
PREreview’s mission is to make scholarly peer review more equitable, open, and collaborative. We create open-source tools that enable experts to provide constructive feedback on preprints and receive recognition for their contributions. Through partnerships and training, we raise awareness of systemic biases in evaluation and host events for collaborative, barrier-breaking peer review.

*Platform* PREreview.org is the only journal- and preprint server-independent preprint review platform that provides a way for anyone with an ORCID iD to contribute constructive feedback to preprints and be recognized for it.

*Training* We run peer-review workshops and cohort-based programs in collaboration with other community members. The curriculum is designed to engage reviewers in discussions that challenge the current process, to surface the impact of personal and systemic bias, and to offer strategies for self-reflection and tools to provide clear, constructive, and actionable feedback to research outputs.

*Live Reviews* Live Reviews are topic-centered, interactive preprint review calls facilitated by the PREreview team and open to anyone who is willing to bring their constructive and collaborative attitude to peer review. Outputs from Live Reviews are published on PREreview.org, and can be used to improve a manuscript and/or be integrated into journal peer-review workflows.

## Project Author(s)
Daniela Saderi
## Project Links
https://prereview.org
## Project Video
https://github.com/PREreview/assets/blob/main/logo/logo-vertical-white.png?raw=true
***
This post was automatically generated by
Daniela Saderi
***