---
title: 'NEUROTWIN'
date: 2021-04-06
authors: ['admin']
layout: post
categories: ['Other','Other','Other','Other']
tags: ['Other','Other','Other','Other']
---
The NEUROTWIN project is a scientific collaboration between the Transylvanian Institute of Neuroscience (TINS) from Cluj-Napoca, Romania, and three internationally acclaimed European institutions. The project is funded through the Twinning instrument, call H2020-WIDESPREAD-2020-5, of the European Union. Its goal is to advance the neuroscientific research of the TINS institute, increase its international visibility, and develop its intellectual property and technology transfer procedures. Overall, the project will consolidate a pole for neuroscience development in Eastern Europe by providing increased capacity to perform cutting-edge research.

Within the project, we are launching the TINS Neuroscience Seminar Series with the hope to shine a light on the fascinating world of Neuroscience. Our series brings together elite researchers in the field to build an impressive overview of cutting-edge techniques and findings about neural function.
 
Our goal is to bring the field of Neuroscience closer to those who embrace this passion, especially in places where the field is largely under-represented. We strive to inspire students, researchers, and industry workers worldwide to join us in the quest of understanding the brain.
## Project Author(s)
Transylvanian Institute of Neuroscience (TINS); Ernst Strungmann Institute for Neuroscience (ESI); Imagine Institut des Maladies Genetiques (Imagine); University College London (UCL)
## Project Links
https://www.neurotwin-seminars.com/
***
This post was automatically generated by
anonymous
***
