"OpenDrop Digital Microfluidics Platform". https://open-neuroscience.com/post/opendrop_digital_microfluidics_platform/
OpenDrop a modular, open source digital microfludics platform for research purposes. The device uses recent elec #Hardware#Benchtop#Computers#Software ...
tro-wetting technology to control small droplets of liquids. Potential applications are lab on a chip devices for automating processes of digital biology.The OpenDrop V4 is modular electrowetting controller. The driver board is equipped with a connector that can host a ...
circuit board cartridge with a 14×8 electrode array and 4 reservoirs. The liquids stay on a thin, hydrophobic foil laminated to the circuit board . The device is powered from USB though an included USB-C cable. All the voltage level are generated on the device and can b...
e set with the built in soft menu from 150-300 Volts, DC or AC.OpenDrop CartridgesThe modular concepts of the OpenDrop V4 allows different configurations of cartridges: A gold coated electrode array board that can be coated with any dielectric layer and hydrophobic coat...
ing to make cartridges for topless digital microfluidic applications using readily available materials.The OpenDrop V4 Cartridge is a close-cell cartridge capable of “move, mix, split and reservoir dispensing”. The 4×8 electrode array and 4 reservoirs are laminated with...
 a 15um ETFE foil, hydrophobic coating and ITO top cover.ProgrammingThe OpenDrop V4 can be operated standalone and droplets can be moved through the built in joystick. A control software to program sequences of patterns from a computer is available as a free download. T...
he board is also compatible with Adafruit Feather M0 controller boards and can be reprogrammed through the free Arduino IDE for custom specific applications.  A sample code with the instruction to activate electrodes can be found on the OpenDrop GitHub.Features:Modular ...
Cartridge SystemConnector to connect electrode board with up to 128 channelsGold coated 14×8 electrodes array, 2.75 mm x 2.75 mm in size, 4mil gapsReservoirs – the new electrode array features 4 CT-type reservoirsAC and DC voltage generated on the device form USB power....
 True AC voltage driving capability (up to 300VAC).32bit AVR SAMD21G18 microprocessor with plenty of memory and powerElectronic settings for voltage level, frequency and AC/DC selectionElectronic reading of actual voltage levelOne connector for communication and powerin...
g (USB-C)Optical isolation of the high-voltage electronics trough opto-couplers and PhotoMOSNew polyphonic audio amplifier and speaker (it’s a synth!)Cartridge presence detectionFeedback amplifierSuper flat OLED DisplayNice joystick and 2 buttons, 3 LEDsReset buttonAll ...
files open source, designed on KiCAD...
